udp_tunneling: add udp tunneling (#29839)
envoyproxy/envoy: docs/root/intro/arch_overview/http/upgrades.rst

   :emphasize-lines: 15-16, 19-22, 29-30
   :caption: :download:`terminate_http3_connect_udp.yaml </_configs/repo/terminate_http3_connect_udp.yaml>`

.. _tunneling-udp-over-http:

Tunneling UDP over HTTP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::
   Raw UDP tunneling is in an alpha status and may not be stable enough for use in production.
   We recommend to use this feature with caution.

Apart from ``CONNECT-UDP`` termination, as described in the section above, Envoy also has support for tunneling raw UDP over HTTP
``CONNECT`` or HTTP ``POST`` requests, by utilizing the UDP Proxy listener filter. By default, UDP tunneling is disabled, and can be
enabled by setting the configuration for :ref:`tunneling_config <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.udp.udp_proxy.v3.UdpProxyConfig.tunneling_config>`.

.. note::

>    Currently, Envoy only supports UDP tunneling over HTTP/2 streams.

Reviewer: Where does this limitation come from?

Author: Not a technical implementation, only since I focused on ``HTTP/2`` implementation for this round. I intend to add HTTP/3 support and tests along the way.

Reviewer: Sounds good. Can we say here that h3 is coming soon, or add a TODO?

Author: There's a TODO in line 734 (``// TODO(ohadvano): support upstream HTTP/3.``). I don't think writing in the docs themselves that H3 is coming soon would be the correct action

By default, the ``tunneling_config`` will upgrade the connection to create HTTP/2 streams for each UDP session (a UDP session is identified by the datagrams 5-tuple), according
to the `Proxying UDP in HTTP RFC <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9298.html>`_. Since this upgrade protocol requires an encapsulation mechanism to preserve the boundaries of the original datagram,
it's required to apply the :ref:`HTTP Capsule <config_udp_session_filters_http_capsule>` session filter.
The HTTP/2 streams will be multiplexed over the upstream connection.

> As opposed to TCP tunneling, where downstream congestion can be applied by alternately disabling the read from the connection socket, for UDP datagrams, this mechanism is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As opposed to TCP tunneling, where downstream flow control can be applied by alternately disabling the read from the connection socket, for UDP datagrams, this mechanism is not supported.
```

Therefore, when tunneling UDP and a new datagram is received from the downstream, it is either streamed upstream, if the upstream is ready or halted by the UDP Proxy.
In case the upstream is not ready (for example, when waiting for HTTP response headers), the datagram can either be dropped or buffered until the upstream is ready.
In such cases, by default, downstream datagrams will be dropped, unless :ref:`buffer_options <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.udp.udp_proxy.v3.UdpProxyConfig.UdpTunnelingConfig.buffer_options>`
is set by the ``tunneling_config``. The default buffer limits are modest to try and prevent a lot of unwanted buffered memory, but can and should be adjusted per the required use-case.
When the upstream becomes ready, the UDP Proxy will first flush all the previously buffered datagrams.

.. note::
   If ``POST`` is set, the upstream stream does not comply with the connect-udp RFC, and instead it will be a POST request.
   The path used in the headers will be set from the post_path field, and the headers will not contain the target host and

>    target port, as required by the connect-udp protocol. This option should be carefully used.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
   target port, as required by the connect-udp protocol. This option should be used carefully.
```
